---
title: "Viral myocarditis involves the generation of autoreactive T cells with multiple antigen specificities that localize in lymphoid and non-lymphoid organs in the mouse model of CVB3 infection"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/Viral
venue: 'Molecular Immunology'
date: 2020-6-10
citation: ' Basavalingappa R*, Arumugam R*, <b>Lasrado N</b>* , Yalaka B, Massilamany C, Gangaplara A, Xiang S, Steffen D and Reddy J. Viral myocarditis involves the generation of autoreactive T cells with multiple antigen specificities that compartmentalize in lymphoid and non-lymphoid organs in the mouse model of CVB3 infection, Molecular Immunology (2020). *co-first authors '
---

Abstract:
Autoreactive T cells may contribute to post-viral myocarditis induced with Coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3), but the underlying mechanisms of their generation are unclear.  Here, we have comprehensively analyzed the generation of antigen-specific, autoreactive T cells in the mouse model of CVB3 infection for antigens implicated in patients with myocarditis/dilated cardiomyopathy.  First, comparative analysis of CVB3 proteome with five autoantigens led us to identify three mimicry epitopes, one each from adenine nucleotide translocator 1 (ANT), sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ ATPase 2a (SERCA2a) and cardiac troponin I. None of these induced cross-reactive T cell responses. Next, we generated major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II dextramers to enumerate the frequencies of antigen-specific T cells to determine  whether T cells with multiple antigen specificities are generated by CVB3 infection.  These analyses revealed appearance of CD4 T cells positive for SERCA2a 971-990, and cardiac myosin heavy chain-α (Myhc) 334-352 dextramers, both in the periphery and also in the hearts of CVB3-infected animals.  While ANT 21-40 dextramer+ T cells were inconsistently detected, the β1-adrenergic receptor 181-200/211-230 or branched chain α-ketoacid dehydrogenase kinase 111-130 dextramer+ cells were absent.  Interestingly, SERCA2a 971-990, Myhc 334-352 and ANT 21-40 dextramer+ cells were also detected in the liver indicating that they may have a pathogenic role.  Finally, we demonstrate that the SERCA2a 971-990-reactive T cells generated in CVB3 infection could transfer disease to naïve mice. The data suggest that CVB3 infection can lead to the generation of autoreactive T cells for multiple antigens indicating a possibility that the autoreactive T cells localized in the liver can potentially circulate and contribute to the development of viral myocarditis. 

Access the article below
----
[Link to the article]

[Download the paper here](http://ninaadlasrado.github.io/files/Viral.pdf)

